
{{Randomize Slide Show|hid/mytools.presentation.RandomizeSlideShow:new|randomize|Randomized Slide Show}}

This extension provides way to create custom slide show in 
randomized slide order. Additionally the following functions are 
provided: 

* not randomize slides at beggining
* not randomize slides at ending
* randomize sequential slides as group

== Install ==

Install OXT package through the extension manager and then restart your office.

== Usage ==

This small extension can be used as follows:

# Open your presentation file.
# Choose Tools - Add-Ons - Randomize Slide Show, Randomize Slide Show dialog is opened.
# Fill values and push OK to randomize.

After the above procedure, new custom slideshow with randomized 
slide order is created. If it is set as default slide show on 
Slide Show - Slide Show Settings dialog in the main menu, 
it can be started through Slide Show - Slid Show entry.

* Custom slide show name: shown in the list of custom slide show. If named one is already exists, simply replaced.
* Skip slides from beginning: number of slides not randomize as starting pages
* Skip slides at ending: number of slides not randomize as ending pages
* Each: number of slides as group to randomize
* Set to default slide show: created custom slide show can be started by Slide Show menu entry

If the slide show is randomized without setting to skip first slide, 
you may see funny running the slide show depends on the state of the following option. 
There is an option, "Always with current page" in 
Tools - Options - OpenOffice Impress - General - Start presentation entry. 
If first page is placed in the middle of the slide order and the slide show is 
started from current page, the slide show is started from about the middle of the 
slide sequence because of the above option. 
Please add title page and skip to randomize it or set the option disabled.


== Macros ==

Defined macros can be used to randomize slide order without the dialog. 
This can be used to randomize slides with defined parameters. 
This is useful for assiginig to button or actions that can be used 
by the user of the presentation.

RandomizeSlideShow.Module1.RandomizeCurrentImple routine can be used to 
randomize current presentation document.

 ' Randomize current presentation document with arguments specified.
 ' Name of custom slide show is default and set to default presentation.
 ' @param nSkipBegins number of skipped slide at beginning
 ' @param nSkipEnds number of skipped slide at ending
 ' @param nEach number of slide in each group
 ' @param bStart start presentation from first page if true
 Sub RandomizeCurrentImple(_
      nSkipBegins As Integer, nSkipEnds As Integer, nEach As Integer, _
      Optional bStart As Boolean)

This macro can be called as follows: 

 Sub PreparedRandomization
  ' the library should be loaded before to use its functions
  GlobalScope.BasicLibraries.loadLibrary("RandomizeSlideShow")
  ' skip first two slides and ending two slides, grouping each two slides.
  ' and start the presentation from first page after randomization
  RandomizeCurrentImple(2, 2, 2, True)
 End Sub

RandomizeSlideShow.Module2 module contains several pre-built macros to 
randomize slides order. They are named with prefix Randomize_ and 
remained part indicates parameters. Randomize_b1e1g2 means 
skip first page and last page and group two slide each. 
The routines with _start suffix starts the presentation after the 
randomization with parameters.


== License ==

Public domain.

